Okay. it's time for bed now.
Past time.
- Are you tucked in?
- Yeah.
Okay. Close your eyes
and let the dreams come.
I'm not sleepy. daddy.
Can you talk to me just a little longer?
Hey. you remember the song "furusato"
my mother used to sing to
me whenever I couldn't sleep?
I thought you said it was
when she missed Japan.
Yeah. but it calmed us
both when we needed it.
Dr. Randa?
They're ready for you.
Daddy? Are you there? Why'd you stop?
Sorry. I gotta go. sweetheart.
But the song's not finished.
Yeah. But this way you will
have something to look forward to.
How soon are you coming home. daddy?
I'll be home before you know it.
I love you.
I love you too. daddy.
Hiroshi... Meet your son.
Not the way you
wanted it to be... I know...
I never said that... It's just...
I thought the two of
us were all we needed.
I thought of taking your
father's name... William.
We can call him bill.
That was my stepfather's name.
My father's name was... Kentaro.
Kentaro.
It's okay. kentaro.
I'm here.
Hiroshi.
Wait.
Please. I need to talk to you.
We don't have time.
If the titan is heading to Santa soledad.
we need to get there and find a way
to send it back where it came from.
Please. Let me see that letter.
Of course.
Forgive me for reading it.
It belongs to you... and uncle Lee.
I need to explain.
You don't owe me an explanation.
Your business is your own.
It was just a one-time mistake.
Really?
That letter doesn't seem like a "mistake."
- "I love you. Lee."
- Stop.
- "I always will."
"In another lifetime. we
could be together. Your kei."
I know what it says.
So did bill randa.
That letter was with his things.
He knew that you betrayed him.
And your betrayal drove him away.
I don't believe that.
That's not who he was.
Billy loved you.
He wanted to be the best
father he could be for you.
That's not what I remember.
No. I was just talking to
him driving into Kazakhstan.
He was saying we'd never
been away from you for so long
and he wanted to get
back home to you so bad.
This was two months ago.
My condolences on your loss.
But you still have your other great love.
When you said "fieldwork." I
didn't know you meant this far afield.
We didn't pick the spot.
The titan did.
- Thank you.
- Thanks.
Attention. all apex cybernetics personnel.
titan arrival in t minus 13 hours.
Stage two alert.
Are you having second thoughts?
Aren't you?
Do we really think
my code's the answer?
Yes. I do. corah.
You know. this isn't a tiny leaf wing you
can perch on your arm and feed peanuts to.
Do you really feel like
we can control this thing?
Yes.
Now. make sure your code
skill's up to control titan x.
No pressure. I'm counting on you.
You know. you have
every right to be upset.
But can I ask you something?
What good is it doing you...
To live a life that's so fixated
on wanting to change the past
that you can't allow yourself
to create a better future?
I mean. at some point.
you're gonna have to move beyond
blaming everyone for what they did
and start building a life that's yours.
What do you expect from me?
Just pretend none of
this ever happened?
No. of course not.
Well. it would be convenient
for you. wouldn't it?
I'm not telling you this for
my benefit. Hiro. but yours.
And hers and your children.
You got your mother back. Hiro.
You did that.
Do you really wanna
push her away now?
Because if you do.
you're blowing off the opportunity
to discover one of the most fascinating.
fearless and unique people alive.
All because you're mad
that a long time ago. she just
happened to fall in love with two men.
I'd expect you of all people might
know a little something about that.
Well. our ride's here.
All right.
Pack it up. everybody. It's here.
Director barris. if you
would just hear me out.
Absolutely. If you can explain to me
why you're headed to South America
when apex cybernetic is telling us
they have a positive hit
on titan x in the Bering sea.
Because the last time apex
told us they had a "positive hit."
we chased a blue whale
halfway across the pacific ocean.
So I don't trust apex.
I don't trust them either. That's
why I need eyes on the scene.
I can't just call them liars.
A reliable source has
confirmed that they...
That apex knows that titan x
is headed to South America.
What source?
A highly respected and
confidential informant.
It's colonel Shaw. isn't it?
Damn it. Tim. The world's on a precipice.
I've got possible titan sightings
popping up all over the globe
and you want me to take a
valuable asset off the board
based on the word of a fugitive?
No. no. It's not just Shaw's
word. He has evidence.
A migratory map from
bill randa's journals.
Okay. I stand corrected.
So I'm supposed to trust a
fugitive and a crazy dead man.
Well. apex does. and they're not
sharing that information. Why not?
Look. sir. we cannot afford
to be wrong about this.
There are good people on this
ship and equipment that can help.
But it's not going to do any good in
Alaska because there is nothing there.
Apex are our partners in this.
- Are they?
- And they have friends in high places.
You understand?
All right. look.
If I back this play. it's going to be
both of our necks on that chopping block.
I'm going to need more
than your source. Tim.
Get me some proof.
Do you want to talk about it?
I'd rather talk about you.
You said you think you can help.
Did something happen
to you in San Francisco?
I think I heard something.
Heard what?
I went to the golden gate bridge
and there was this vibration. like...
I don't know. a song
coming from the ocean.
You heard the ocean singing?
You know what? I was drunk.
It was probably nothing.
Okay. Pilot said we land in two hours.
And then we'll go on
shore to Santa soledad.
By boat.
How do we know that's
where titan x is going?
The people on this island.
they celebrated a festival
that foreshadowed
the return of this titan.
They called it co-cai.
And Billy believed that this was
one stop on its migratory route.
He predicted titan x should
reappear about every fifteen years.
He didn't live long enough
to see if he was right.
but if he was. titan x isn't
due back before 2023.
So. bill randa was late. and
we're six years too early?
By activating the suzuki
device on skull island.
it appears that we have awakened titan x
and brought it out of axis
mundi ahead of its schedule.
If its natural instincts do kick in.
it should follow the path it always has:
Skull island right back to Santa soledad.
What do you think apex is
gonna do if it does show up?
Tim said the intel we got from
our little incursion into apex.
indicates they may be working
on a way to control the titan
with a neural implant.
Probably air-launched
from a chopper or a drone.
But the real question is. why
are they keeping it a secret?
It might explain a lot
about him. The two families.
He was abandoned as a kid.
Maybe he never wanted
to risk being alone.
So you think he needed a backup family?
A spare just in case?
He couldn't help himself.
It's the engineer in him.
Neither one of us was a spare.
It doesn't matter who
came first. He loved us both.
And left us both.
You didn't see him when I told
him we thought you were dead.
He was destroyed. He barely
slept for two years straight.
I finally get a chance
to see all of him now.
Not needing to keep himself
half hidden all the time.
Why did you keep that letter?
It's all I had left of you. kei.
I could take it out from
time to time. you know.
and kick myself for not
fighting harder for you.
Or pat myself on the
back for how noble I was.
How do we make this right?
We can't change the past. kei.
And I don't think Hiroshi's in any mood
to hear an apology from us right now.
Even if it is owed.
Just give it time.
Hiya. boss.
Jason. Are we ready?
We will be. Just need a
quick moment for a chat.
So long as it's quick.
Security sweep on the north shore
found a zodiac boat hidden in a cove.
They got here sooner than I expected.
Corah's friends.
It was only a matter of
time before they showed up.
How do you want me to handle them?
Do what you have to do and
make sure they don't interfere.
We can't have them
leading monarch here.
Well. we were right. Apex is here.
All right. we gotta let monarch know
and stay out of sight until they get here.
Where did all the people go?
They moved on after monarch moved in.
I guess living under a
microscope didn't appeal to them.
And the titan comes back here?
If our recently acquired
research from bill randa is correct.
with titan x on the loose. it
should return to Santa soledad.
But why? To do what?
To spawn. to feed.
I imagine we'll find out
tonight when the titan arrives.
First we launch the drone
carrying the projectile.
Then we launch the
projectile into the titan.
Unless someone were to try and stop us.
- What are you talking about?
- Your friends. the randas.
You know they're here.
What are you talking about?
Am I really supposed to
believe you're surprised?
I mean. they were calling
me in pensacola. but it's...
What? Brenda. it's not
like I need them in my ear
telling me how dangerous
and reckless and stupid this is.
I hope you don't believe that. corah.
Of course I believe it.
But I also believe this is gonna work.
or else I wouldn't be here. would I?
Well. let's get to it then.
Titan arrival in t minus 3 hours...
Look. That wasn't here before.
It's one of ours.
Doesn't look like anybody's
been here for a while.
- You wanna have a look?
- Yeah.
Stay here. Keep watch.
1968.
Looks like monarch waited a
decade for that thing to come back.
before they packed it in.
Find anything?
No. Nothing we can use.
Monarch should have toughed it
out. but they didn't have Billy's journal.
Billy was here.
He came back.
It's your drawing. Hiroshi.
Okay.
Hey. Hey.
Hiroshi.
What I wrote in that letter...
- we don't have to talk about it.
- Yes. We do.
Whatever you think that letter means.
I need you to know I loved your father.
With all of my heart.
Well. not all of it.
I chose to be with Billy.
I wanted us to be a family.
When I read that letter.
I was filled with anger.
At you. at Shaw.
For what you did to dad
and what it made him do to me.
But then. do you know what I felt?
Relief.
I always assumed that
he left because of me.
That I did something wrong.
That I wasn't his own flesh and blood.
That he didn't really love me.
That's not true.
So. reading that letter
and finally understanding
that I wasn't the one
who disappointed him...
In a way it lifted a
weight off my shoulders.
If only I'd been there.
If I hadn't taken foolish risks.
The day I fell through that rift...
It was me who made the decision.
They both were against it.
And I convinced them that I
should be the one to go down.
And that reckless decision
cost me years of my life.
Years I could have spent with you.
Been there for you as a mother.
Maybe then you wouldn't have spent so
much of your life feeling so abandoned.
I realize now the people I disappointed...
Those mistakes were my own.
You own yours.
I own mine.
- What is it?
- Hey. where are you?
I'm just seeing my family.
Something has come up.
and I think you should
really get back to D.C.
I haven't seen them
in over a month. okay?
This is important. I'll see you next week.
No. wait. Don't hang up. There's
something here you really need to see.
- Goodbye. Tim.
- A fishing trawler
in the western pacific
hauled in an old monarch bag.
It has "property of William
randa" stenciled on it.
It's got field notes in
it. old maps. data tapes.
It might be from his
skull island expedition.
Yeah. I'll be back in a week.
A week? Are you serious?
There's a treasure trove
here. Stuff nobody's ever seen.
Can you please handle this?
Yes. but I'm...
He's your father. You're the
only one here that even knew him.
I didn't know him.
I barely remember him.
I'm... yeah. I'm...
I'm sorry. I just...
It's these readings that
we're getting out of janjira.
What's in here could be really important.
I just... I'm sorry. I just
thought you'd wanna be here.
I'll be on the next flight.
I'm picking something up on
sonar. Range 1.000 meters.
It came out of nowhere.
What's the bearing? What's the bearing?
Three-two-zero.
That's behind us.
I think it's titan x. It's coming right for us.
Hard to starboard. Bring us
around to heading two-two-zero.
Range 500 meters and closing.
Four hundred meters.
Come on.
- Three hundred meters.
- Dive.
Two hundred meters and closing.
My god.
One hundred meters. Contact imminent.
Brace for impact.
Contact heading south. southeast.
Five hundred meters ahead.
Headed straight for Santa soledad.
We're not gonna make it
in time. We gotta tell Shaw.
About ten miles out.
making a beeline right for us.
Just like bill randa's map told us it would.
Yes. Walter.
You were right.
Everything's proceeding as expected.
It won't be a problem.
I have faith in corah's code.
The synaptic link will scale. yes.
And we'll have a proof of concept.
Yes. I'll keep you updated.
It won't be long now.
The drone crew alert
for final drone check.
Next arrival in 20 minutes.
Let's cut through the old
tavern to get a better look.
It's so lifeless now.
We have to stop apex. and
we're running out of time.
All right. There's the drone
carrying the synaptic link.
You see those two metal torches on
either side of it up against the buildings?
We're gonna use those to
jam the rotors on the drone.
Wait. is that may?
Time to lock it up. Jason.
Okay. I got it.
Boss lady says we gotta go.
Yeah. I get that.
but I still need to
recompile the new module
and then make sure the
interface doesn't bottleneck.
That sounds super important.
The thing is. we just got
confirmation the titan is inbound.
He'll hit our locale in 16 minutes.
so let's not make perfect
the enemy of good.
Perfect is our only option.
It's now or never!
Let's go!
You wanna know what
apex is really up to. let's ask.
Shaw! Shaw!
May!
What are you doing?
They know you're here.
You need to leave. Now.
That's not an answer.
Why are you helping them?
Because I feel like the work that
we're doing could prevent another g-day.
We've made incredible progress.
We'll be able to control them.
Progress?
May. it's barbaric is what it is.
Who gets to control
them? Brenda? Her boss?
Do you hear how naïve
you sound right now?
I sound naïve?
Jesus Christ. Cate. we're
trying to do something good.
Stay out of the way.
I don't want you guys to get hurt.
Say she makes a pretty
compelling argument.
Then why are they keeping
this away from monarch?
Yes. exactly. If apex truly believes
this is the answer. why keep it a secret?
Why not share their
success with the world?
It makes no sense. Lee.
Because whoever holds the other end of
that leash. can not only prevent a g-day.
but they can create and pinpoint a g-day
to destroy whatever or wherever
the leash holder chooses.
And that makes it a weapon that
can be sold to the highest bidder.
Everything all right?
I told you I needed more time.
We all need more time. corah.
We make the most of what we got.
What's that?
It's starting.
They're headed straight
for the launch zone.
Get everybody out of there.
Copy. Clear the launch area. now.
- Copy that. Clear out.
- Let's go. let's go! Clear out!
If we're gonna do this. now's our chance.
Let's go!
Ma'am. we have a perimeter
breach at the launch site.
- When it rains. it pours.
- We gotta get that bird in the air.
- Come on.
- Scarabs!
Colonel. we need to go!
Everybody back inside! Run!
- Launch it or lose it. boss.
- Go.
Time to light this candle.
Lee. run!
- Run!
- Go!
Lee!
Lee? Lee? Are you hurt?
Let's get him inside.
- Watch my leg.
- Come on. Come on.
Come on.
We got you.
Let me see. It's okay.
All right. all right. all right.
Let me have a look. This is gonna hurt.
Cate?
Cate.
We lost target. Spin
around for another try.
Cate.
- My god.
- What the hell is she doing?
No. we have to stop!
- Get someone out there!
- No! No!
If this works. this is how we save her.
This is what we came here for. corah.
Drone has acquired target.
Fire!
Got a connection.
That's good. Do we have control now?
No. Synaptic link is still uploading.
I got you. I got you. Cate.
Are you all right?
Cate. we have to go.
Report.
Intense neural firing in the
frontal cortex and amygdala.
Stand by for full cognitive override.
We've disrupted its somatic responses.
every muscle group is seizing up.
No. No. No. No. Wait.
The titan has so many neurons.
The feedback loop is
causing massive data spikes.
I told you that I needed more time.
Stop whining about time.
Pull it together. corah.
I told you that we couldn't scale
the program to something this big.
- Fix it. now!
- Are you kidding me?
The whole thing is gonna crash.
Wait.
Where's Hiroshi?
Come on. catey.
We're gonna have to run.
Catey.
We gotta run!
- Cate!
- Kentaro!
- Dad!
- No. get back!
Get back!
Signal's dead. I've lost data.
We're in the dark here.
- Brenda. Brenda.
- We have to evacuate.
- Brenda.
Evacuate!
Evacuate. now!
Go! Come on!
Go!
Let's go. come on!
Hey. come on!
You are not going down
with the ship. Let's go.
Dad? Dad?
Help! Someone help!
- My god.
- Cate. are you okay?
- Get help. kentaro.
- Dear.
Are you okay?
- Get help. please. Just get help.
- Cate.
You're gonna be okay.
I'm gonna get you help.
I missed so much of your life.
No.
So many...
Moments.
So many lies.
You're gonna be okay.
It's okay.
Hiroshi.
Remember our song?
- Hiroshi? Hiroshi.
- Dad?
- Dad? Stay.
- Hiroshi. Hiroshi.
Get the medic we have over there helping
these people looking for signs of life.
Let's lock the site down.
Preserve everything. Data. equipment.
I don't care how damaged
it is. everything goes.
And above all else. I want
every single person accounted for.
Help! Help!
Look. no one leaves until
the director gets here. all right?
You understand? No one! Okay. go.
- Tim. we need a doctor!
- We need a medic!